hey there boaters I'm captain Stacy
Hanrahan and welcome to monday's episode
of voters TV first up our captain's
caption photo was provided by tyler
johnson will reveal the caption of the
day at the end of the show now in smooth
sailing new routes new records it seems
like everybody is circumnavigating the
earth but the typical sailing
circumnavigation via the Suez and Panama
canal's must be old news because
adventurers are finding new more
dangerous ways to sail the seas take
Russian solo circumnavigator the door
kanya cog for example instead of sailing
the trade winds around the globe he
decided to sail the freezing wild waters
around Antarctica earlier this month the
dorset the N artica cup race track
record at 102 days when he sailed into
Albanese western australia Fodor left
King George sound back on January 26
alone aboard his 85-foot mono Hall he
sailed through the freezing storms while
dodging both icebergs and whales
meanwhile two young British venturers
James Hooper and Rob gauntlet recently
became the first people to ever travel
from the North Magnetic Pole to the
South Magnetic Pole entirely under their
own power it took the two 21 year olds
just over a year to ski across the
Arctic ice cap cycle the length of the
Americas and sail from Chile to
Australia they used only wind and muscle
power in an effort to stress the threat
of global warming modern-day adventurers
are embarking on voyages that Jules
Verne would be proud of coming up in
Bothans locker we'll take a look at
stacey's wish list
on my wish list this week three
innovative products to wear while
boating first on the list is the
graviton watch by reactor it displays
accurate tide charts for 275 worldwide
locations other tide watches use a
mathematical algorithm to predict tides
which isn't always accurate but the
gravitons memory was programmed with
over eight million data points to
provide precise tide charts plus
thousands of custom locations can be
programmed with an offset of plus or
minus 180 minutes next on the list the
OTB keeper if they're good enough for
the Navy SEALs they're good enough for
me OTB Footwear created a line of boots
for the US Navy SEALs and use the same
design basics to create a great boat
shoe the keeper features a perforated
flat sole that allows for instant water
drainage the rubber used allows for
silent traction on both wet and dry
surfaces and the keepers air mesh tongue
and vamp make it much more breathable
than your typical leather boat shoe I'm
told a lady's version will be coming out
this fall and last but not least i put
the panther vision cap light on this
week's list clip-on hat lights might be
functional but they're not exactly
fashionable this Panther vision cap has
ultra-bright l.e.d.s built into the brim
when the lights are off it simply looks
like you're wearing a hat but if you
find yourself in need of some extra
light in a dark engine room for example
just flip the concealed on/off switch
and you've got up to 30 hours of
continuous light will tell you where to
get my wish list products at the end of
the show next up let's see what's
splashing around in nautical news
seventy tonne right whale is no match
for a 90,000 ton tanker ship and a
collision between the two is often
deadly for this endangered animal but
now researchers have found a way to help
ships travelling through New England
waters avoid these tragedies hydrophones
or underwater microphones have been
attached to special buoys to pick up the
calls of right whales when whale sounds
are identified by a computer in the buoy
the data is then transmitted to Cornell
University labs to be further analyzed
that's when ships can be notified of
whales in their vicinity three of these
buoys have been placed in Cape Cod Bay
and 10 others are in the busy shipping
lanes leading into Boston Harbor where
right whales tend to hang out there are
less than 400 North Atlantic right
whales left on the planet they like to
feed at the surface and are not shy of
those since they communicate often with
sounds like the up call the use of
auto-detection buoys is a great way to
warn ships of their presence liquefied
natural gas tankers are required to slow
to ten knots when right whales are
detected in their area under terms of
their federal license for other types of
ships the slowdown is voluntary in the
future LNG tankers will automatically
receive warnings directly from the
detection buoys for now Cornell
researchers are directly calling ship
captains ships can also be notified via
the right whale sighting advisory system
operated by NOAA for more information on
what's being done to stop ship whale
collisions go to listen for whales dot
org now it's time to reveal stacy's the
boaters calm celebrity profile pic of a
day which is
captain Norbert Burgess and the 59-foot
Ted Ashby Norbert is master of the Ted
Ashby a scowl built by the National
Maritime Museum of New Zealand he says
he has many beautiful memories of
working on the vessel with a commercial
launch master certificate Norbert has
been captaining charter boats since 1996
welcome to the voters and congrats on
your celebrity status and finally today
the captain's caption of the day is
here's to you mr helmet wearing boat
grounding bud light drinker when I
captain of Michael Miller
that'll do it for this episode of the
voters TV see you back here on Wednesday
you